---
title: Board Meeting Minutes
date: "2024-11-13"
excerpt: November crunch
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendee's

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman

## Agenda

- Separation of the larger MonoGame project templates
- Discussion around 3.8.3 maintenance release for December
- Revision/refresh of the community tutorial page
- Open Hours for November
- Bounty updates

## Outcomes

- Larger MonoGame templates to move to the MonoGame.Samples repository, no downturn effect on users who will still use `dotnet new` from the CLI.
- 3.8.3 release is on track for maintenance fixes in November.
- Tutorials page to be revised to organize older content (with warning) lower, with current/valid tutorials to the top.
- Call for new content to submit to the community tutorials page.
- Open Hours for November will focus on the Vulkan/DX 12 native update, with Q&A.
- All bounties are progressing, although not at a pace that was expected.  Used for lessons learned in future bounties.
- Year-in-review post to be published.
- Renewed focus to prioritize content for active Patreons and drive value to contributors.
- New swag showcased, we finally found a good printer.


### Support

- [Financially](https://monogame.net/donate/) - several tiers and options available for Github, PayPal and Patreon.
- The [MonoGame Store](https://store.monogame.net) - MonoGame branded gear and merchandise.

## Get Involved

- Code, we accept Pull Requests.
- Help in the [Community discord](https://discord.gg/monogame) and beyond (we also love blog posts).
- [Bounties](https://github.com/MonoGame/MonoGame/issues/8120), Fix bugs and add features faster as well as get paid for your work :)

---

### Onwards and Upwards

The MonoGame Foundation team