---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - November 2025
date: "2025-11-12"
excerpt: SHIP IT
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendees

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman

## Agenda

- `3.8.5` Ship it already.
- Funding updates, focus on outreach.
- Considering MonoGame extensions on XNA from feedback.
- DotNet 10, considering impacts and usage.
- Improving build performance, focusing testing each target ONCE.
- New content needed for the Content Pipeline, focusing on supporting strategies for console.

## Outcomes

- Focusing on merging final work ad get the Preview release chain started, final gate to release.
- Audio backend missing from Vulkan, DX12 - base implementation to be delivered in `3.8.5` for test.
- Existing Assimp fix to be merged, to be monitored for the future.
- Known issue with Assimp (3D import), pending work from the provider.  As it is an existing issue in 3.8.4, this will be fixed after 3.8.5 release.
- Continual review of Native asset format handling, ongoing work.  Moving asset compilation/decompilation on the native framework.
- Vulkan and DX 12 packaging to be generated.
- MonoGame will continue to be built with DotNet 8 for the time being, until the DotNet 10 has been tested more.  Testing automation with DotNet 10 to "see how it goes".
- Ongoing review of automation processes, to maximise efficiency.
- Simon to collate all the best practices for Content to showcase a new stream/show and documentation. Stay tuned!

## Outstanding Bounties

All current bounties are either complete or in progress.

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
