---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - August 2025
date: "2025-08-13"
excerpt: Powering on to 3.8.5
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendee's

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda

- MonoGame Trademark
- MonoGame twitch account owned by Russians, can we reclaim it?
- Handling of tool.x and library.x repos for dependencies
- Create a MonoGame Steam Curator account.
- Start zipping up all artifacts and deliver that as part of the releases/pre-releases/etc.
- What is the AMA this month to focus on? (Possible AMA guest: Jonathan Peppers to talk about Draw a Stickman)
- Do we want to spend money on things like YouTube promotions and the like on other platforms?
- Ship the new content pipeline flaws and all.
- Consider if we should ship 3D platformer kit this month or next month.
- Discuss reviving the Discourse community site.

## Outcomes

- MonoGame Trademark to get migrated to the Foundation.
- Foundation to claim the "MonoGame" twitch channel in preparation for also streaming the Open Hours and other content there.
- Work to simplify working with Source is underway, removing the dependency hell that is present today.  Greatly simplifying source access.
- Additionally, work has begun on a DLL download version for MonoGame, which should also reduce the need for developers to use source, especially for offline access.
- Work has begun to simplify MonoGame templates as the Framework evolves, review required.
- MonoGame Foundation to setup a Steam Curation account to aid developers
- Schedule to be arranged for this month's AMA with a possible mystery guest
- Content Builder solution marches to the final preview, ready for use/test
- Finalising plans for the public release of the 3D platformer, the team is ensuring that best efforts are made to test everywhere
- MonoGame Foundation is working to revive the Discourse server for the community, no timeline as yet

## Outstanding Bounties

All current bounties are either complete or in progress.

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
