---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - December 2025
date: "2025-12-10"
excerpt: Season Greetings
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendees

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda

- `3.8.5` - Top of mind
- Sponsors private area - demo/talk for Open Hours
- Funding
- Christmas plans
- Spanish community
- `dotnet exec`, new dotnet feature consideration
- Surprise scene

## Outcomes

- DotNet has published a new `dotnet exec` feature that allows running DotNet commands without having to install DotNet, but would require updating templates to DotNet 10.  More discussion required.
- Harry to validate the DotNet 10 situation and possibly update automation to use 10.  Needs to review more regarding DotNet 10 template support.  No plans to update MonoGame Framework library to 10 at this time.
- fAduio implementation almost complete, should be ready this week.
- Vulkan and DX12 are in a steady state ready for preview.
- New Unified project template for the Native implementation is in the works, requiring unified NuGet project.
- Discussions for the new year regarding expanding language support and engagements.
- Funding is gettng close to the wire and MonoGame has a set minimum limit to ensure all future commitments are met.
- Surprise gift for sponsors coming very soon!

## Outstanding Bounties

All current bounties are either complete or in progress.

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
