---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - October 2025
date: "2025-10-08"
excerpt: Hashtag shaders
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendee's

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda

- Refocus on Open Hours and Streaming
- Content Builder update
- Vulkan / DX 12 status update
- Looking at a hosting option for Sponsors previews
- Brainstorming on more streaming ideas
- 3.8.5-develop.12 approval

## Outcomes

- Renewed focus on content to drive up MonoGame support.
- Content Builder testing is a high priority on all samples to drive out preview.
- Numerous issues are blocking the finalization of 3.8.5, specifically with Vulkan.  More specialist knowledge is needed.
- Tom and Harry have agreed to dedicate time to look deeper into 3.8.5 blocking issues.
- Discussion on the Assimp importer issues, a call out has been made to the Assimp group to qualify issues.
- Need for a private sponsors area for new content previews, discussing options.
- New 2D shaders bounty is nearing completion.  Mobile tutorial bounty right behind it.
- Discussion about live-streaming dev efforts, stay tuned.
- Agreed, we need more streaming and content to make use of the new paying platform, suggestions welcome.


## Outstanding Bounties

All current bounties are either complete or in progress.

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
