---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - March 2025
date: "2025-03-12"
excerpt: March madness
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendee's

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda

- Discussion on how to expedite updates/releases.
- Staff report/review what has been accomplished. Do we need more people on the payroll to focus on fixing issues.

## Outcomes

- New bounty (#8661) updated to help address the AssimpNetter regression issue with some textures.
- Proposal to have a new staff member to address automation and increase issue/PR resolution capacity, Simon Jackson proposed and agreed.
- Agreement to set a standard for Commit mesages to make release changelogs better, to be added to the contributon guidlines.
- Increase the bounty for (#8642) to $2000 "Finish MacOS and Linux Vulkan Native Backend Support - urgent need.
- DX12 Pr is in the final stretch and XBox is right behind. Release imminent.
- Discussion on SDL3 which is not a priority as it does not add value, however, the new Native backend will use SDL3 by default in the future.
- AMA schedule to discuss the content pipeline improvements.

## Outstanding Bounties

Help is requested on the following outstanding bounties:

- [PAID BOUNTY] Finish off MacOS and Linux Vulkan Native Backend Support #8642 💰 $2000 USD
- [PAID BOUNTY] Fix Rendering of Ship Models for ShipGame sample #8661 💰 $500 USD
- [PAID BOUNTY] Create native backend for Content Pipeline #8641

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
