---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - May 2026
date: "2026-05-13"
excerpt: New Blood on the Board
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

Board meeting took place on April 8th, 2026.

## Attendees

- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Dominique Louis - Chairman
- Garrick Campsey - Board Member
- Christopher Whitley - Board Member
- Vic Chelaru - Board Member

## Agenda

- Build Pipeline review - Build tests are getting much longer.
- Review of OpenXR request from the community.
- Discussion on nullability requests for `3.8.6`.
- Final call on `3.8.5` remaining items.
- Updates on Samples, 3D platformer, Ascent, new suggestions.
- Bounties

## Outcomes

- Simon to review the build process and see if we can shave some time off, as builds are getting much longer due to new platforms and dependencies
- Due to current demands, there is no appetite to embed OpenXR in the framework.  However, we are open to community members submitting PR's to enable OpenXR which is fine, but not to add OpenXR to MonoGame itself for the time being.
- On review, nullability is fine and a good roadmap view, keeping the schedule to `3.8.6`. Will continue to review.
- Chris to update contributor guidelines for nullability support.
- Vulkan is marked as complete
- DX12 is the new focus to address some Unit Test issues
- MojoShader update to be merged for `3.8.5`
- 3D platformer continuing on the University stream, aiming to release asap.
- Ascent development is turning to more advanced rendering techniques.  Testing with Vulkan and DX12.
- Need to focus on more MonoGame spotlight shows rather than segments.
- Roadmap milestone page to be refreshed with the current status of the release.

## New Bounties under consideration

- SDF Fonts (in design)
- Multiple Window support on desktops.
- Dav1d video decoder.
- Debug GPU features (markers and resource naming)
- Metal backend for MacOS.
- OpenGL backend for native
- Wasm backend for native (depends on above)
- Native Android/iOS backends which use Vulkan.

### [Send feedback on new/upcoming bounties here:](https://community.monogame.net/t/what-bounties-would-you-like-to-see-next-big-ticket-items/21463)

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
