---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - January 2026
date: "2026-01-14"
excerpt: New Year's greetings
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## Attendees

- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters

## Missing
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda

- Financial status.
- Review Current Staff Priorities, are we focused on the right areas?
- Restoring the Discourse community site.
- Finishing 3.8.5
- Hub release schedule
- Our goals for 3.8.6.
- Updating our roadmap page.
- Patreon Fees are an issue (15% in fees, GitHub is max 6%).

## Outcomes

- MonoGame finances are improving with ConcernedApe, we now have sufficient funding for another 24 months of development and maintenance.
- Seeking new funding to extend the scope of MonoGame's capabilities in 2026.
- Improve Automation testing for all platforms and status validation.
- Work is underway to restore the Community site and re-enable the mail server connection.
- Final 3.8.5 PR's getting updated and merged, race to release.  New preview this week.
- Looking to expand test hardware to add additional certified platforms.  (Add suggestions!)
- New bounty to launch to test ARM building compatibility for tools / builds.
- Work is underway to update the Sponsors highlighted on the MonoGame website.
- Sponsor onboarding process improvements required.
- Foundation discussed recent concerns raised over AI use, the contribution guides will be updated to reflect our position.

## Outstanding Bounties

All current bounties are either complete or in progress.

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
