---
title: MonoGame 3.8.5-preview.2 
date: "2026-01-02"
excerpt: New 3.8.5 Preview 2 Release Announcement
tags: announcements
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

## 3.8.5-preview.2 Release Announcement

The MonoGame Foundation is pleased to announce Preview 2 of the 3.8.5 Release!
[Grab it here](https://www.nuget.org/packages?q=MonoGame) or from within your favourite IDE.

The highlights in this release are the new StartKit templates, with new VK/DX12 targets included.

Also of note:

* It includes multiple platforms, if you do not have the iOS / Android workloads, then just remove them from the solution to test. (easy to do with the new `slnx` solution format)
* No additional requirements from the other platforms.
* Vulkan and DX12 are previews and there may be issues.  

Please log any issues found in the [MonoGame Preview forum thread](https://discord.com/channels/355231098122272778/1456336483991425065) to ensure everyone can feedback and discuss anything found.

## Known issues

* MediaPlayer is currently non-functional for VK/DX12 targets, resulting in "Song's" not playing. Sound effects still work as expected.  This is being worked on in Code Time
* Spaces on Windows are not supported in Project paths currently due to a limitation in the command line parser currently used.  Having spaces anywhere in the path will cause content build errors.  We are looking to replace the command-line parser to resolve this.  Mac and Linux are unaffected.
* In initial testing, DX12 seems to not run on certain machine configurations, unclear why at this time as it works 90% of the time.  Additional test data/feedback is needed.

Please help test this latest version!

## Feedback

Any feedback or questions should be directed to the [MonoGame Discord Forum here](https://discord.com/channels/355231098122272778/1456336483991425065)

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
