---
title: Board Meeting Minutes - April 2026
date: "2026-04-08"
excerpt: New Blood on the Board
tags: meeting
author: MonoGame Foundation
image: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
ogImage: /images/blog/cover/monogame_foundation.png
---

Board meeting took place on April 8th, 2026.

## Attendees

- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Dominique Louis - Chairman
- Dean Ellis - President
- Garrick Campsey
- Christopher Whitley
- Vic Chelaru

## Agenda

- Welcome new board members
- Samples update and future planning
- AMA meeting planning
- Discuss secret project, coordinate planning
- 2026 - look ahead
- Final prep for 3.8.5 release
- Bounties

## Outcomes

- Welcome Chris, Vic and Garrick to the Foundation board (about page updated)
- Push for `3.8.5` release continues
- Samples Update
    - Ascent - Ongoing and part of the Friday stream
    - 3D Platformer -  Tom to test again on Vulkan/DX12 by. Nearly done
    - 3D FPS - Needs someone with Blender skills to create a couple of levels. Possible more tweaks. 
    - CardStarterKit - More tweaks to make it more modular
    - MonoGame.Samples - Dominique needs to fix resolution for Platformer2D, in PR
    - RPG StarterKit - Dominique to chase artist.
    - Chris to Create list of common community issues so we can create Samples. Maybe included as sample in XNAFiddle?
    - Dominique to look at creating Native Vulkan and DX12 templates
    - Tom to get fiddle.monogame.net to redirect to XNAFiddle.net
- AMA schedule planned
- Secret project discussed and next steps planned
- 2026
    - Funding goals: Need more Medium donations. Maybe reach out to bigger players for donatios.
    - Chris suggested looking into useing Open Collective
    - Maybe a Game Stream for more marketing
    - Dominique and Garrick to discuss more 60s, addictive shorts

## New Bounties under consideration

- SDF Fonts (in design
- Multiple Window support on desktops.
- Dav1d video decoder.
- Debug GPU features (markers and resource naming)
- Metal backend for MacOS.
- OpenGL backend for native
- Wasm backend for native (depends on above)
- Native Android/iOS backends which use Vulkan.

### [Send feedback on new/upcoming bounties here:](https://community.monogame.net/t/what-bounties-would-you-like-to-see-next-big-ticket-items/21463)

{% include 'partials/_blog_footer.njk' %}
