---
_title: Board Meeting Minutes - 2023-10-24 
_layout: landing
---
# Board Meeting Minutes - 2023-10-24

## Attendee's
- Dean Ellis - President
- Dominique Louis - Treasurer
- Simon Jackson - Corporate Secretary
- Tom Spilman - Banking Matters
- Marko Jeremic - Board Chairman
- Thomas Altenburger - Board Member

## Agenda
- Initial kick off meeting
- Fountation setup progress
- Roadmap discussions
- MonoGame GitHub Issue and PR clean-up / process
- Aob

# Outcomes
- (Tom) Finalise Bank account and arrange for board  members access.
- (Tom) Review PR and Issue backlog, closing any too old or unlikely to merge with "nice" message.  Remaining to be put to board review for addition (pending rebase).
- (Tom) Chase up and report on IRS non-profit decision.
- (Tom / Marco) Review website content ready for publication and replacement of existing.
- (Simon) Reach out to MVP community for DocFX support, with possible contract for support.
- (Simon) Create a new MS Account for MonoGame Foundation, to be converted to non-profit once IRS decision is made - Pending Account setup
- (Simon) Setup email accounts for Board appointments and individual accounts for all board members.
- (Simon) Review and organise GitHub actions for use on the MonoGame GitHub, Issue/PR review, CLA's, etc.
- (Dom) Arrange tracking workbook for Foundation outgoings, GitHub hosting, Office 365, etc.
- (Dom) Migrate existing funds to new bank account and record details for accountancy - Pending awaiting bank account setup
